source/_integrations/advantage_air.markdown, before:

---
title: Advantage Air
description: Instructions on how to integrate Advantage Air A/C controller into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Climate
ha_release: 0.117
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Bre77'
ha_domain: advantage_air
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - climate
  - cover
  - diagnostics
  - select
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Advantage Air integration allows you to control [Advantage Air](https://www.advantageair.com.au/) Air Conditioning controllers into Home Assistant.

## Prerequisites

The wall-mounted Android table running the [MyPlace](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.myair5), [e-zone](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.ezone), or [zone10e](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.zone10) must have a static IP, which you will enter on the integrations page in Home Assistant.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entities

### Climate

The integration will create a climate entity for each air conditioning system found and for each zone that is temperature-controlled.

### Cover

The integration will create a cover entity for each zone that is not temperature controlled, allowing you to adjust the opening level manually from 0% to 100% in 5% increments.

### Sensor

The integration will create sensor entities for a variety of aspects:

- The air filter sensor shows if it needs to be replaced.
- Two sensor entities will be created for the 'time to on' and 'time to off' features. Use the `advantage_air.set_time_to` service to change these.
- Each zone that is temperature-controlled will have a sensor to show the temperature (disabled by default), and how open the damper is.
- Each zone with a wireless temperature or motion sensor will have a sensor that reports its wireless RSSI.

### Binary Sensor

The `advantage_air` binary sensor platform will create a binary sensor for each zone that has a motion sensor.

### Switch

The `advantage_air` switch platform will create a switch entity to toggle fresh air mode, if it is supported.

### Select

The `advantage_air` select platform allows you to change the zone used for the "MyZone" feature.

## Services

### Service `advantage_air.set_time_to`

Set the On/Off Timer using the relevant sensor entity.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | `sensor.[name]_time_to_on` or `sensor.[name]_time_to_off`
| `minutes` | no | Number of minutes between `0` and `720`.

### Service `advantage_air.set_myzone`

Change the MyZone setting to the provided zone climate entity.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | `climate.[zone name]`

Commit message:

Add Number platform to Advantage Air

source/_integrations/advantage_air.markdown, after:

---
title: Advantage Air
description: Instructions on how to integrate Advantage Air A/C controller into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Climate
ha_release: 0.117
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Bre77'
ha_domain: advantage_air
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - climate
  - cover
  - diagnostics
  - select
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Advantage Air integration allows you to control [Advantage Air](https://www.advantageair.com.au/) Air Conditioning controllers into Home Assistant.

## Prerequisites

The wall-mounted Android table running the [MyPlace](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.myair5), [e-zone](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.ezone), or [zone10e](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.air.advantage.zone10) must have a static IP, which you will enter on the integrations page in Home Assistant.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entities

### Climate

The integration will create a climate entity for each air conditioning system found and for each zone that is temperature-controlled.

### Cover

The integration will create a cover entity for each zone that is not temperature controlled, allowing you to adjust the opening level manually from 0% to 100% in 5% increments.

### Sensor

The integration will create sensor entities for a variety of aspects:

- The air filter sensor shows if it needs to be replaced.
- Two sensor entities will be created for the 'time to on' and 'time to off' features. Use the `advantage_air.set_time_to` service to change these.
- Each zone that is temperature-controlled will have a sensor to show the temperature (disabled by default), and how open the damper is.
- Each zone with a wireless temperature or motion sensor will have a sensor that reports its wireless RSSI.

### Binary Sensor

The `advantage_air` binary sensor platform will create a binary sensor for each zone that has a motion sensor.

### Switch

The `advantage_air` switch platform will create a switch entity to toggle fresh air mode, if it is supported.

### Select

The `advantage_air` select platform allows you to change the zone used for the "MyZone" feature.

### Number

The `advantage_air` number platform allows you to change the Time to On and Time to Off values.

## Services

### Service `advantage_air.set_time_to`

Set the On/Off Timer using the relevant sensor entity.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | `sensor.[name]_time_to_on` or `sensor.[name]_time_to_off`
| `minutes` | no | Number of minutes between `0` and `720`.

### Service `advantage_air.set_myzone`

Change the MyZone setting to the provided zone climate entity.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | `climate.[zone name]`
